Welcome to our Chautauqua!

What’s a [Chautauqua](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chautauqua)? A
Chautauqua is a particular type of unofficial learning institution. In
the late 19th and early 20th century there was a community education
movement that started at Chautauqua Lake, New York. As the movement
gained popularity, “pop-up” sites were also called
Chautauquas. Chautauquas took different forms, from brick and mortar
institutions to roving tents but always featured entertaining
lectures. Although the Chautauqua movement has long since died, traces
of it still remain and we would like to revive the spirit of
Chautauqua using a contemporary platform, the internet!

For those of you who know us from our
[Basement Cinema](http://solvallagata-braedraborgarstigur-cinema.neocities.org/history.html),
we are excited to present the next phase. This time around we would
like to transcend beyond entertainment, our cinema will be just one
dimension of our Chautauqua. We will have monthly screenings that
correspond to our current topic, and hopefully with popularity we will
add more screenings (both feature length and shorts).

Our website will be the main platform of our forum and participation
is highly recommended! Each month we’ll have a different topic that
everyone can contribute to. The success of Reykjavík Chautauqua relies
heavily on the participation and comments of others and the diversity
of perspectives, otherwise it would just be us ranting on a blog… Our
goal isn’t political or necessarily intellectual, we just want to have
fun while learning and exploring some things that we find interesting,
and we welcome you to join us.

Chantal and Rúnar
